
--- PAGE 1 ---

– 1 –
AF3-0221E2
1. FEATURES AND USES
FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP 50] is a
professional daylight color reversal film with an ISO
speed rating of 50. Nearly identical in performance to
FUJICHROME Velvia for Professionals [RVP], this film
was made possible through the development of new
production technologies and substitutes for raw materi-
als vital for the manufacture of the current Velvia but
now hard to procure. In addition to the world’s highest
level of image color saturation and vibrancy, this film
combines superb granularity with resolving power. The
result is well-modulated, vivid color reproduction and
high picture quality, as re quired in such wide-ranging
subjects as nature photography, fashion, products,
interiors and artwork. It is especially suited to subjects
that demand precision in reproduction and emphasis in
colors.
Features
• Vibrant Color ..............
Reproduction/
Rich Color Tone
Depiction
Vivid skin tone reproduction
with the world’s highest color
saturation equal to that of the
current Velvia. Superb color
tone depiction for rich color
reproduction.
• Fine Grain Quality/ ....
High Definition/
High Resolving
Power
Superb grain quality, vibrancy
and resolving power, as with
the current Velvia.
• Neutral Grays and .....
Excellent Deep
Shadows
Fine neutral gray reproduc-
tion from the highlights to the
shadows.
• Superb Push/Pull ......
Processing
Minimum color balance varia-
tion over a range from –1/2 to
+1 stop to enable wider pho-
to opportunities. Also allows
fine adjustments of exposure
and density to be easily done
during processing.
2. SPEED
Light Source Speed Color Balancing Filter
Daylight ISO 50/18º None
T ungsten Lamps
(3200K) ISO 16/13º * No. 80A **
* Indicates the effective speed resulting from designated filter
use.
** Wratten Filter
FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50]
COLOR REVERSAL FILMS
3. FILM SIZES, EMULSION NUMBER, BASE
MATERIAL AND THICKNESS
Sizes Emulsion
Number
Base
Material
Base
Thickness
• Rolls*
135 ... 36-exp.
 ... 36-exp. (20-roll pack)
#501–
Cellulose
Triacetate
127 µm
120 ... 12-exp.
 ... 12-exp. (5-roll pack)
220 ... 24-exp. (5-roll pack)
98 µm
• Sheets*
4×5 in. (10.2×12.7 cm)
... 10 sheets
8×10 in. (20.3×25.4 cm)
... 10 sheets
QuickLoad 4×5 in ... 20 sheets
Polyester 175 µm
* Some sizes are not available in certain markets.
4. EXPOSURE GUIDE FOR VARIOUS
LIGHT CONDITIONS
Use a meter to determine the exposure setting. If a me-
ter is not available, refer to the following table.
Light
Conditions
Seashore or
Snow Scenes
under Bright
Sun
Bright
Sunlight
Hazy
Sunlight
Cloudy
Bright
Cloudy
Day or
Open
Shade
Lens
Aperture f/16 f/11 f/8 f/5.6 f/4
(Exposure time: 1/125 sec.)
NOTES
• The settings are for 2 hours after sunrise and 2 hours before
sunset.
• Provide a lens opening 1/2-stop smaller during the summer
and 1/2-stop larger during the winter (except for snow scenes).
• Excessively bright (or dark) or backlighted subjects may require
plus (or minus) 1-stop lens opening adjustments.
Daylight
Under usual daylight conditions, color balancing filters
are not necessary. For the following exposure condi-
tions, however, the indicated filters are recommended.
• A UV filter No. 2C*, No. 2B* or other appropriate ul-
traviolet absorbing filter is recommended for scenes
that are receiving strong ultraviolet light from the
sun, such as seaside lo cations, snow scenes, and
bright distant views.

--- PAGE 2 ---

– 2 –
FUJIFILM PRODUCT INFORMATION BULLETIN • FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50]
Fluorescent
Lamp Type
White
(W)
Daylight
(D)
Cool White
(CW)
Warm White
(WW)
Color
Compensating
Filters*
40M+10B 40R+10M 40M+5R No. 80C+
25M
Exposure
Corrections** +1 2/3 stop +1 2/3 stop +1 1/2 stop +2 stops
(Exposure time: 1/4 sec.)
* Wratten Color Compensating (CC) Filters are recommended.
 NOTE: No. 80C is a Wratten Color Conversion Filter.
** Exposure correction values when using a filter relative to unfil-
tered exposure results.  A “+” followed by a number indicates
the required increase in lens opening.
NOTES
• Use a shutter speed slower than 1/30 second.
• For shutter speeds of 4 seconds or more, exposure adjust-
ments will be necessary to compensate for reciprocity law
failure.
Tungsten Lamps
• A Wratten Filter No.80A is required when using
3200K tungsten lighting.  A 1 2/3-stop larger lens
opening is also required.
• If household tungsten lighting (room lamps, etc.)
constitutes the main source of illumination, in ad-
dition to the above filter a Wratten Filter No.82A is
required, plus an aperture increase of 1/3 stop (total
2 stops).
Mixed Light Sources
Under mixed light conditions, the basic filter configura-
tion should suit the main light source.  In the case of
cameras with TTL metering, there is no need for addi-
tional exposure compensation for any CC filter(s) used.
5. LONG EXPOSURE COMPENSATION
No exposure correction or color balance compensation
is required for exposures within a shutter speed range
of 1/4000 second to 1 second.  However, for exposures
of 4 seconds or longer, ‘reciprocity law failure’-related
color balance and exposure compensations are re-
quired.
Exposure Time
(sec.)
1/4000
to 1 4 8 16 32 64
Color
Compensating
Filters None
5M 7.5M 10M 12.5M Not
recom-
mendExposure
Corrections*
+1/3
stop
+1/2
stop
+2/3
stop
+1
stop
* Exposure correction values when using a filter relative to unfil-
tered exposure results.  A “+” followed by a number indicates
the required increase in the lens opening.
NOTE
 The above figures are based on the use of standard process-
ing for films with average emulsions.  These figures should
therefore be used as a rough guide only.  For more accurate
results, it is recommended that test exposures be made under
the actual shooting conditions.
• Excessively high or low color temperatures may re-
quire the following filters and exposure corrections.
Subject Conditions Filter Exposure
Correction
High Color T emperature:
Cloudy weather landscapes or por-
traits in open shade in clear weather.
No.81A* +1/3
 stop**
Low Color T emperature:
Morning and evening twilight scenes
and portraits.
No.82A* or
No.82C*
+1/3 to
+2/3 stop**
* Wratten Filter
** A “+” followed by a number indicates the required increase in
lens opening.
Electronic Flash
• Electronic flash produces light similar to daylight, so
filters are not needed.  However, the possibility of
undesirable effects on color balance, due to various
factors (differences in equipment, use duration, etc.)
should be taken into consideration. T est exposures
are recommended.
• The use of a flash meter is advisable, but the follow-
ing formula can also be used to obtain a satisfactory
lens opening.
Lens
Aperture
(F-number)
=
Electronic Flash Guide Number (at ISO 50)
Electronic Flash-to-Subject Distance
• Set the film speed at ISO 50.  Since the amount of
light reflected onto the subject from surrounding sur-
faces will differ with the conditions, refer to the flash
unit instructions.
Daylight Photoflood / Photo-Reflector Lamps
• Daylight-type photoflood or photo-reflector lamp
output may be lower than that indicated by the ex-
posure meter. It is recommended to compensate for
the difference by increasing the exposure time by
lowering the shutter speed or by increasing the lens
opening. Whenever possible, test exposures are rec-
ommended.
• Other factors that should be considered when deter-
mining the exposure settings are lamp configuration,
length of time used and line voltage, as they may af-
fect lamp output and color balance.
Fluorescent Lamps
• The use of the following combinations of color com-
pensating filters is advisable when photographing
under fluorescent lighting.
• For exacting work, however, test exposures are rec-
ommended because lamp brand and age may af-
fect light output and color balance.

--- PAGE 3 ---

– 3 –
FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50] • FUJIFILM PRODUCT INFORMATION BULLETIN
6. EXPOSURE PRECAUTIONS
With artificial light, such as electronic flash, photoflood,
fluorescent, tungsten, high intensity discharge lamp
(metal halide, sodium, mercury vapor), etc., the lamp
output and color temperature may be affected by such
factors as brand, age of equipment and line voltage.
Reflectors and diffusers can also influence light inten-
sity and color temperature.
7. UNPROCESSED FILM HANDLING/STORAGE

HANDLING
• Expose film before the expiration date indicated on
the film package and process as soon as possible
after exposure.
• Roll film should be loaded and unloaded quickly and
away from direct sunlight.
• Film loaded in cameras should be exposed and pro-
cessed promptly.
• Sheet film must be handled in total darkness and
with care so as not to touch the emulsion surface.
• X-rays inspection machines used to inspect
checked-in baggage at airports can cause fogging
of film. Put both exposed and unexposed film into
carry-on baggage (preferably in a transparent plas-
tic bag or a net bag that allows the film to be seen).
Because of the increasing number of airports using
strong X-ray machines for carry-on baggage, it is
recommended that you remove film from your carry-
on baggage and request a visual (manual) inspec-
tion of your film.
• Film fogging may occur near X-ray equipment used
in hospitals, factories, laboratories and other places
where radiation is used. Always keep film away from
sources of radiation.
STORAGE
Storing exposed or unexposed film under hot and hu-
mid conditions may adversely affect the speed, color
balance and physical properties of the film. Although it
is best to store film at a low temperature, for practical
purposes, film should be stored as follows:
Short-term
Storage Store at 59ºF(15ºC) or below (Refrigerator)
Long-term
Storage Store at 32ºF(0ºC) or below (Freezer)
• New building materials, newly manufactured furni-
ture, paints and bonding agents may produce gases
which could affect photographic film. Do not store
film, lightproof boxes containing film or cameras or
film holders loaded with film near these materials.
• Film should be sealed in plastic bags* prior to cold
storage. When taken out of cold storage, film should
be allowed to reach room temperature before open-
ing by letting it stand over 3 hours (for refrigerated
film) or over 6 hours (for frozen film).  Opening film
while it is still cold may cause condensation to form
on the film surface, causing color changes or the
emulsion to become more susceptible to scratches.
   * Polyester, polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, etc.
8. PROCESSING
This film is designed for processing by Process E-6,
Fujifilm Process CR-56, or Fuji Hunt’s PR06, etc.
9. PROCESSED FILM HANDLING/STORAGE
Since the purpose of film is to provide a long-term re-
cord of memorable events, as much effort as possible
has been made to use materials that exhibit the least
amount of change over time, but the effects of light,
heat, atmospheric oxygen, contaminant gases, humid-
ity and mold cannot be completely avoided. It is pos-
sible, however, to minimize change in the photographic
image or base material by maintaining appropriate stor-
age conditions, such as those used by museums and
art galleries. T emperature and humidity control is the
most important key to minimizing the change that oc-
curs in film. Processed film stored in the dark under the
following conditions may be expected to show almost
no change over time.
Storage Period with
Almost No Change Temperature Relative Humidity
More than 20 years Below 50ºF(10ºC) 30% – 50%
10 – 20 years Below 77ºF(25ºC) 30% – 50%
(1) Color reversal film should be mounted inserted into
sleeves* for storage.
 * Polyester, polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, etc.
(2) Processed film should be stored at a place as far
away as possible from high temperatures, direct
sunlight and other strong light. The following condi-
tions are not desirable for the storage of film and
should be avoided in the case of long-term storage:
• Storage in a closet lying against a wall that is ex-
posed to cold, outside air (where condensation
may form).
• Storage in an attic or on top of a closet or cabi-
net near the ceiling (where high temperatures
may occur).

--- PAGE 4 ---

– 4 –
FUJIFILM PRODUCT INFORMATION BULLETIN • FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50]
10. LIGHT SOURCES FOR VIEWING
Use a standard transparency viewer.  Visual responses
will differ with light source quality and brightness.
Therefore, employ a viewer which meets the ISO/ANSI
standard.*
* The ISO standard (ISO 3664:2000) specifies an illuminated
viewer surface with a color temperature derived from a CIE il-
luminant D50 (D:Daylight) with a reciprocal color temperature
of 5000K, an average brightness of 1270cd/m
2
 ± 320cd/m
2
, a
brightness uniformity of more than 75%, a light diffusion level
of more than 90% and an average color rendition assessment
value of more than Ra90.  Transparency viewers should meet
these standards.
11. PRINTS AND DUPLICATES
This film can produce high-quality prints when used
with digital printers such as the Fuji Digital Minilab
Frontier.  High-quality duplicates can be made on FUJI-
CHROME DUPLICATING FILM CDU TYPE
II (CDU II).
12. RETOUCHING AND BLEACHING
Changes in density and color balance can be made by
using readily available retouching dyes and bleaching
chemicals.
13. PACKAGING
Size Item Contents
135 Film Box New Exclusive Design
Identification Color: Gold, Blue
Plastic Case Same as the current product (Tranparent container with a black cap).
Cartridge New Exclusive Design
Identification Color: Gold, Blue
120 Film Box New Exclusive Design
Identification Color: Gold, Blue

5 roll pack
Envelope



--- PAGE 5 ---

– 5 –
FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50] • FUJIFILM PRODUCT INFORMATION BULLETIN
Size Item Contents
120 Backing Pa-
per and Seal
Backing paper: FUJICHROME Exclusive Design
Seal: Exclusive Design
220 Film Box New Exclusive Design
Identification Color: Gold, Blue
Envelope

Backing Pa-
per and Seal
Backing paper: FUJICHROME Exclusive Design
Seal: Exclusive Design

Sheet Film Box, La-
bel and Seal
New Exclusive Design
Identification Color: Gold, Blue


End SealT op Seal
Backing Paper
End SealT op Seal
Backing Paper
5 roll pack


--- PAGE 6 ---

– 6 –
FUJIFILM PRODUCT INFORMATION BULLETIN • FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50]
14. SHEET FILM CODE NOTCHING
A notch code identifying this emulsion type is located in
the upper right-hand corner when the emulsion surface
is facing toward you. The same notch is provided for
QuickLoad type films.
15. PROCESSED FILM EDGE MARKINGS*
<Rolls>
• 135 Size
• 120 Size
• 220 Size

--- PAGE 7 ---

– 7 –
FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50] • FUJIFILM PRODUCT INFORMATION BULLETIN
<Sheets>
• Standard Sheet Film • QuickLoad

NOTES
  * The emulsion is on the opposite side. (Base side facing you)
** This code represents an identification marking enabling Fujufilm’s manufacturing quality control system to assure individual  quality.
16. FILM STRUCTURE
Interlayer
Interlayer
Interlayer
* These layers become colorless and transparent after processing.
** The backing layer becomes colorless and transparent after processing, but it is not provided with 135 size film.
17. DIFFUSE RMS GRANULARITY VALUE  ......9
Micro-densitometer Measurement Aperture: 48 µm in
diameter.
Sample Density: 1.0 above minimum density.
18. RESOLVING POWER
Chart Contrast 1.6 :1 .......................... 80 lines/mm
Chart Contrast 1000 :1 ........................ 160 lines/mm

--- PAGE 8 ---

FUJIFILM PRODUCT INFORMATION BULLETIN • FUJICHROME Velvia 50 Professional [RVP50]
NOTICE  The data herein published were derived from materials taken from
general production runs. However, changes in specifications may occur without
prior notice.
– 8 –
7-3, Akasaka 9-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-0052, Japan
Ref. No. AF3-0221E2 (KAMIQ-07.3-FP) Printed in Japan
20. SPECTRAL SENSITIVITY CURVES
22. SPECTRAL DYE DENSITY CURVES
19. CHARACTERISTIC CURVES
21. MTF CURVE
* Sensitivity equals the reciprocal of the exposure (J/cm
2
)
required to produce a specified density.
